---
layout: post
title:  "ENPH 131 - EZ01 - Experiments 9 & 10"
date:   2016-03-11 12:00:00 -0800
category: teaching
---

Welcome to ENPH 131 Section EZ01!

Lab Room: CCIS L2-187

Time : Friday 2-5 PM

Lab Dates: Jan. 22, Feb. 5, Feb. 26, Mar. 11

The official lab schedule is [here][schedule] and is the correct version in case this page contains discrepancies.

Lab reports are due the Monday following a lab period at **5 PM**. Labs are to be handed-in to the drop boxes on CCIS L2 (same location as PHYS 130). All labs **must** be typed. Example calculations may be done by hand, but they must be legible. 

[Here][template] is an outline of what your lab reports should include. There is a also a thorough example in your lab manual in the yellow pages!

Contact me via email: ekoch AT ualberta DOT ca (replace AT and DOT as appropriate)
My office is CCIS 2-098. Please contact me by email **before** coming to my office.

**If you miss a lab for a legitimate reason,** you can arrange for a makeup lab during another lab session. **You must email me BEFORE the makeup lab and inform me why the lab was missed.**

Experiment 9: Moment of Inertia
===============================

In today's experiment, you will LoggerPro and a Smart-pulley to determine the moment of inertia of a bicycle wheel and the force from friction. By measuring the wheel's radius, and assuming the wheel is a "hoop" (all the mass is at a distance of the radius), you can estimate the wheel's mass. Compare the value you get to the value given in the lab manual. These measurements will be found by recording the velocity versus time data obtained from the pulley. The pulley template from LoggerPro is available on [eClass][eclass]. You will fit the slope of the collected data to find the linear acceleration. This process is repeated starting from a hanging mass of 200 g, and increasing the mass by 50 g each time until you reach 600 g. Note that the hanger is 50 g. Fitting the equation of motion with the acceleration and mass values will yield the moment of inertia (related to the slope) and the torque from friction (related to the intercept). 

Experiment 10: Collisions
=========================

Since our final lab period is scheduled on a holiday, we will go over the final lab today as well. This lab will not be due until March 29 @ 5 PM, which is the Tuesday following the Easter holiday.

This lab is different than the others: You do not have to write a full lab report! You must answer the 17 questions in the lab manual. You may do these by-hand. It must be clear what equations you are using, why you are using them, and the work you did to get to your answer. You must then write a half-page conclusion on the main results of your analysis and calculations. *No other sections are needed!*

This lab explores kinematics, energy, and momenta of the collision of a ball launched from a small ramp. There are four videos available on eClass; pick one of these and, using the LoggerPro video analysis we did in Experiment 6, obtain the x and y positions of the ball throughout the video. Continue until the ball hits the floor for a second time. You will extract 4 measurements from this video, as indicated in Figure 1 on page 10-2 in the manual. Using these, your measurement of the ball's mass, and the value for g, answer the 17 questions in the manual.

Marks for the third lab are on [eClass][eclass]. Please let me know if I entered any marks in wrong. Contact me by email if you have any questions regarding the lab reports.

You can find the slides from today's lab [here][slides]. Here is the link to the [lab template][template]!


[slides]: {{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/assets/lab9_10_enphys131_ez01.pdf
[template]: https://www.ualberta.ca/~tetarenk/sample_lab_report.pdf
[eclass]: https://eclass.srv.ualberta.ca/portal/
[schedule]: https://uofa.ualberta.ca/physics/-/media/science/departments/physics1/ugl-media/lab-schedules/winter-131.pdf
