---
layout: post
title:  "ENPH 131 - EZ01 - Experiment 6"
date:   2016-01-29 12:00:00 -0800
category: teaching
---

Welcome to ENPH 131 Section EZ02!

Lab Room: CCIS L2-187
Time : Friday 2-5 PM
Lab Dates: Jan. 29, Feb. 12, Mar. 4, Mar. 18 & Apr. 1

The official lab schedule is [here][schedule] and is the correct version in case this page contains discrepancies.

Lab reports are due the Monday following a lab period at **5 PM**. Labs are to be handed-in to the drop boxes on CCIS L2 (same location as PHYS 130). All labs **must** be typed. Example calculations may be done by hand, but they must be legible. 

[Here][template] is an outline of what your lab reports should include. There is a also a thorough example in your lab manual in the yellow pages!

Contact me via email: ekoch AT ualberta DOT ca (replace AT and DOT as appropriate)
My office is CCIS 2-098. Please contact me by email **before** coming to my office.

**If you miss a lab for a legitimate reason,** you can arrange for a makeup lab during another lab session. **You must email me BEFORE the makeup lab and inform me why the lab was missed.**

Experiment 6: Acceleration due to Gravity
=========================================

In today's experiment, you will take a video of a falling ball, upload the video into LoggerPro, and analyze the data to determine the gravitational constant.

LoggerPro can be downloaded via [eClass][eclass].

You can find the slides from today's lab [here][slides].


[slides]: {{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/assets/lab6_enphys131_ez02.pdf
[template]: https://www.ualberta.ca/~tetarenk/sample_lab_report.pdf
[eclass]: https://eclass.srv.ualberta.ca/portal/
[schedule]: https://uofa.ualberta.ca/physics/-/media/science/departments/physics1/ugl-media/lab-schedules/winter-131.pdf
