---
layout: post
title:  "ENPH 131 - EZ01 - Experiment 7"
date:   2016-02-05 12:00:00 -0800
category: teaching
---

Welcome to ENPH 131 Section EZ01!

Lab Room: CCIS L2-187
Time : Friday 2-5 PM
Lab Dates: Jan. 22, Feb. 5, Feb. 26, Mar. 11 & *Last Date to be determined*

The official lab schedule is [here][schedule] and is the correct version in case this page contains discrepancies.

Lab reports are due the Monday following a lab period at **5 PM**. Labs are to be handed-in to the drop boxes on CCIS L2 (same location as PHYS 130). All labs **must** be typed. Example calculations may be done by hand, but they must be legible. 

[Here][template] is an outline of what your lab reports should include. There is a also a thorough example in your lab manual in the yellow pages!

Contact me via email: ekoch AT ualberta DOT ca (replace AT and DOT as appropriate)
My office is CCIS 2-098. Please contact me by email **before** coming to my office.

**If you miss a lab for a legitimate reason,** you can arrange for a makeup lab during another lab session. **You must email me BEFORE the makeup lab and inform me why the lab was missed.**

Experiment 7: Non-Uniform Kinematics
====================================

**I'm away for today's lab. Another TA for the course, Albert, will be leading the lab.**

In today's experiment, you will collect a spark tape of the motion of a glider on an air track. You will measure and record the distances on the spark tape in a spreadsheet. This gives you a distance vs. time plot. You will then calculate the instantaneous velocity for each point (except the first and last). This gives you a velocity vs. time plot. 

Marks for the first lab are on [eClass][eclass]. Please let me know if I entered any marks in wrong. Contact me by email if you have any questions regarding the lab reports.

You can find the slides from today's lab [here][slides]. Along with instructions for today's lab, I've included a list of common mistakes made in the first report. Also remember to look at the [lab template][template]! It is there to help you!


[slides]: {{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/assets/lab7_enphys131_ez01.pdf
[template]: https://www.ualberta.ca/~tetarenk/sample_lab_report.pdf
[eclass]: https://eclass.srv.ualberta.ca/portal/
[schedule]: https://uofa.ualberta.ca/physics/-/media/science/departments/physics1/ugl-media/lab-schedules/winter-131.pdf
