---
layout: post
title:  "ENPH 131 - EZ02 - Experiments 10"
date:   2016-04-01 12:00:00 -0800
category: teaching
---

Welcome to ENPH 131 Section EZ02!

Lab Room: CCIS L2-187

Time : Friday 2-5 PM

Lab Dates: Jan. 29, Feb. 12, Mar. 4, Mar. 18 & Apr. 1

The official lab schedule is [here][schedule] and is the correct version in case this page contains discrepancies.

Lab reports are due the Monday following a lab period at **5 PM**. Labs are to be handed-in to the drop boxes on CCIS L2 (same location as PHYS 130). All labs **must** be typed. Example calculations may be done by hand, but they must be legible. 

[Here][template] is an outline of what your lab reports should include. There is a also a thorough example in your lab manual in the yellow pages!

Contact me via email: ekoch AT ualberta DOT ca (replace AT and DOT as appropriate)
My office is CCIS 2-098. Please contact me by email **before** coming to my office.

**If you miss a lab for a legitimate reason,** you can arrange for a makeup lab during another lab session. **You must email me BEFORE the makeup lab and inform me why the lab was missed.**

Experiment 10: Collisions
=========================

This lab is different than the others: You do not have to write a full lab report! You must answer the 17 questions in the lab manual. You may do these by-hand. It must be clear what equations you are using, why you are using them, and the work you did to get to your answer. You must then write a half-page conclusion on the main results of your analysis and calculations. *No other sections are needed!*

This lab explores kinematics, energy, and momenta of the collision of a ball launched from a small ramp. There are four videos available on eClass; pick one of these and, using the LoggerPro video analysis we did in Experiment 6, obtain the x and y positions of the ball throughout the video. Continue until the ball hits the floor for a second time. You will extract 4 measurements from this video, as indicated in Figure 1 on page 10-2 in the manual. Using these, your measurement of the ball's mass, and the value for g, answer the 17 questions in the manual.

Marks for the fourth lab are on [eClass][eclass]. Please let me know if I entered any marks in wrong. Contact me by email if you have any questions regarding the lab reports.

You can find the slides from today's lab [here][slides]. Here is the link to the [lab template][template]!


[slides]: {{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/assets/lab10_enphys131_ez02.pdf
[template]: https://www.ualberta.ca/~tetarenk/sample_lab_report.pdf
[eclass]: https://eclass.srv.ualberta.ca/portal/
[schedule]: https://uofa.ualberta.ca/physics/-/media/science/departments/physics1/ugl-media/lab-schedules/winter-131.pdf
