---
layout: post
title:  "ENPH 131 - EZ02 - Experiment 8"
date:   2016-03-04 12:00:00 -0800
category: teaching
---

Welcome to ENPH 131 Section EZ02!

Lab Room: CCIS L2-187

Time : Friday 2-5 PM

Lab Dates: Jan. 29, Feb. 12, Mar. 4, Mar. 18 & Apr. 1

The official lab schedule is [here][schedule] and is the correct version in case this page contains discrepancies.

Lab reports are due the Monday following a lab period at **5 PM**. Labs are to be handed-in to the drop boxes on CCIS L2 (same location as PHYS 130). All labs **must** be typed. Example calculations may be done by hand, but they must be legible. 

[Here][template] is an outline of what your lab reports should include. There is a also a thorough example in your lab manual in the yellow pages!

Contact me via email: ekoch AT ualberta DOT ca (replace AT and DOT as appropriate)
My office is CCIS 2-098. Please contact me by email **before** coming to my office.

**If you miss a lab for a legitimate reason,** you can arrange for a makeup lab during another lab session. **You must email me BEFORE the makeup lab and inform me why the lab was missed.**

Experiment 8: Conservation of Energy
====================================

In today's experiment, you will collect a spark tape of one swing of a pendulum. You will measure and record the distances on the spark tape in a spreadsheet. You will then calculate the instantaneous velocity for each point (except the first and last). You will use these quantities to calculate the kinetic and potential energy at each point. Adding these will give you the total energy. If energy is conserved, the total energy will not change over the pendulum swing.

Marks for the first lab are on [eClass][eclass]. Please let me know if I entered any marks in wrong. Contact me by email if you have any questions regarding the lab reports.

You can find the slides from today's lab [here][slides]. Also remember to look at the [lab template][template]! It is there to help you!


[slides]: {{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/assets/lab8_enphys131_ez02.pdf
[template]: https://www.ualberta.ca/~tetarenk/sample_lab_report.pdf
[eclass]: https://eclass.srv.ualberta.ca/portal/
[schedule]: https://uofa.ualberta.ca/physics/-/media/science/departments/physics1/ugl-media/lab-schedules/winter-131.pdf
